# Example Project Ideas from Previous Years

Project 1: Canadian Jobs amid a Pandemic: Examining the Relationship between Professional Industry and Salary to Regional Key Performance Indicators

> The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to massive rates of unemployment and greater uncertainty in the job market. There is a growing need for data-driven tools and analyses to better inform the public on trends within the job market. In particular, obtaining a “snapshot” of available employment opportunities mid-pandemic promises insights to inform policy nd support retraining programs. In this work, we combine data scraped from the Canadian Job Bank and Numbeo globally crowd-sourced repository to explore the relationship between job postings during a global pandemic and Key Performance Indicators (e.g. quality of life index, cost of living) for major cities across Canada. This analysis aims to help Canadians make informed career decisions, collect a “snapshot” of the Canadian employment opportunities amid a pandemic, and inform job seekers in identifying the correct fit between the desired lifestyle of a city and their career. We collected a new high-quality dataset of job postings from jobbank.gc.ca obtained with the use of ethical web scraping and performed exploratory data analysis on this dataset to identify job opportunity trends. When optimizing for average salary of job openings with quality of life, affordability, cost of living, and traffic indices, it was found that Edmonton, AB consistently scores higher than the mean, and is therefore an attractive place to move. Furthermore, we identified optimal provinces to relocate to with respect to individual skill levels. It was determined that Ajax, Marathon, and Chapleau, ON are each attractive cities for IT professionals, construction workers, and healthcare workers respectively when maximizing average salary. Finally, we publicly release our scraped dataset as a mid-pandemic snapshot of Canadian employment opportunities and present a public web application that provides an interactive visual interface that summarizes our findings for the general public and the broader research community.

---

Project 2: Elucidation of the Relationship Between a Song’s Spotify Descriptive Metrics and its Popularity on Various Platforms

> The music industry and personal music consumption has evolved dramatically with the advent of streaming platforms. In this evolving landscape, there is considerable interest in understanding what factors contribute to a song’s popularity. Extrinsic (i.e. non-acoustic) features of a given song, such as the record label, and/or intrinsic (i.e. acoustic) features such as its energy may contribute to popularity on a given digital platform. In this work, we, for the first time, sought to systematically study how a song’s Spotify acoustic descriptive features correlated with popularity metrics on various Internet platforms. Since each platform defines “popularity” according to platform-specific metrics, a large-scale correlation-based analysis was generated. The digital platforms considered in this article are Google Trends, WhoSampled, TikTok, Twitter, YouTube, and the Billboard Top- 100. Platform-specific scrapers were created and all data was aggregated with the Spotify Echo Nest dataset of descriptive acoustic metrics. While the majority of correlations were unremarkable considering both Spearman and Pearson coefficients, a number of corroborating and contradictory findings resulted, with notable implications for acoustic features on various digital platforms. Notably, the YouTube view count was found to be positively correlated to the Spotify song popularity (p  = 0.822), year (p  = 0.600), and energy (p = 0.455) and moderately negatively correlated to accousticness (p = -0.542) and instrumentalness (p = -0.345). All reproducing code and aggregated data from this work are open-source for use by the broader research community.
